Hello and welcome in this lecture.
We're going to introduce a new node called the BLENDE Poses by Boolean, which will allow us to check
a checkbox and kill off our character.
Let's dive in and see how it works.
OK.
So we want to get our character to die when we reduce the health down to zero.
So the first place we're going to be looking at is animation blueprint, because that is the place that
we're playing our various animations and we want to switch over essentially from playing.
If we go over to our Adam graph, we want to switch over from playing this BLENDE space over into playing
a death animation and basically to never go back from there.
So the way we're going to do this is to use a new type of node called a blend by Boolean.
So if we.
Right.
Click here and look for the different types of Blende that we can get in here, I'm going to scroll
to the top.
There's a whole bunch of BLENDE poses down here that is selected for me by default, in a way.
But if we do a blend poses by boolean, you can see quite clearly that we've got two options here.
A true pose and a false pose.
So basically what we'd want to be doing is to play our B asplin space locomotion animation when we are
not dead.
And otherwise we want to play added animation as the true pose.
And then here we've got some options for how how quickly it's going to blend between the two animations
when the boolean value changes now.
In our case, we're not gonna have players resurrecting.
So the most likely case is that we're just going to hit that boolean once and not go back.
So what we need here, we need a death animation.
So I'm going to.
Right.
Click and search for death and see if we can find a few ones here.
We've got death backwards or death forward.
So let's just have a look at the differences between those by going to our animation view.
And we'll look for death in there just to preview those animations.
So death backwards.
Let's have a look.
Let's do that again.
So.
Okay.
Is being shot from behind and falling forwards is kind of the opposite of what I would expect.
Death forward is probably the one we want.
Where are you being killed from in front?
I think that's what it's trying to say.
So let's go and open up the death forward.
They go we kind of get shot and fall backwards.
So that's the one I'm going to want.
Going to dock my shooter animation blueprints to the main window.
And in here, we're going to look for death.
Forward how we're going to play that through the true pose and then hook up the output pin of the BLENDE
poses by Boole to the output pose.
We hit compile now.
You should see it's playing that B.S. locomotion.
If I hits the checkbox and recompile, you can see it is playing at death animation.
But note it's looping.
So one thing we can do here to prevent that is by selecting that node.
The play death forward.
We can uncheck the loop animation in details.
Painter from the right and hit compile and now it should play the death animation and then come to a
rest at the end of it and stop, not go any further from there, which is exactly what we want here.
It's time for your challenge to add a death boolean, we've been controlling everything else via those
variables on our animation blueprints, time to add a variable to the blueprint for death and whether
we are dead or not.
Set the BLENDE based on this variable and then test it without compiling within the blueprint or compile
first.
B what had to recompile every time you flip the switch and you should be able to see it.
Switch between our death animation and movement animation.
And with that information, you should be able to see whether the timings on that blende node are correct
or not.
So pause the video and have a go.
Okay, welcome back.
So hopefully this was fairly simple to do, let's go into the variables in my blueprint, pain at any
variable.
It's automatically a boolean for me for some reason.
And I'm just gonna have this as is dead.
That's gonna be the state that we're going to then Grampian the character in the next lecture.
Not in this lecture, going to drag this into our Annam Grauwe get is dead and then I'm going to hook
it up to our active value like so.
And now if we compile, we should see is dead shop in the anime preview.
Ed, over on the right bottom.
Right.
And if I check the is dead checkbox then it goes ahead and switches from our locomotion to playing at
death animation.
Fantastic.
So that's what I wants to achieve in this lecture.
And in the next sets, we're gonna hook that up to the actual gameplay.